---
date: "2025-12-31"
title: "GOTY 2025"
tags: [games, goty]
layout: _post.html
---

The best games **I played** in 2025, many of which were not released this year.

## Honourable Mentions

Slay the Spire, which I put more hours into than Silksong (!?) this year, despite already having hundreds of hours in the Switch version.

[Shady Part of Me](/games/reviews/2025/shady_part_of_me.md) for baiting me into playing a puzzle game with French voice acting and a cool art style.

[Florence](/games/reviews/2025/florence.md) for getting me into short indie games with gameplay designed to elicit a specific feeling.

## The List

### 10. Paradise Killer

For the PS1 era vaporwave vibes and charmingly sinister setting.

### 9. [Inscryption](/games/reviews/2025/inscryption.md)

For breaking my "not Slay the Spire" curse and legitimately surprising me with the "postgame".

### 8. [1000xResist](/games/reviews/2025/1000xresist.md)

For a look at how screwed we'd actually be if teens were tasked with saving the world.

### 7. [Dispatch](/games/reviews/2025/dispatch.md)

For building a found family from lovable "ex"-villans, and engrossing gameplay for a Telltale-like.

### 6. In Stars and Time

For making me feel things and taking full advantage of a time loop for story, not just gameplay.

### 5. [Ender Lilies](/games/reviews/2025/ender_lilies.md) & [Ender Magnolia](/games/reviews/2025/ender_magnolia.md)

For striking the perfect balance between souls-like and metroidvania, while getting me into the latter.

### 4. [Hades 2](/games/reviews/2025/hades_2.md)

For improving on its already god-like predecessor in every way.

### 3. [Persona 5](/games/reviews/2025/persona_5_royal.md)

For getting the balance between "interactive anime" and JRPG exactly right.

### 2. Dark Souls & [Dark Souls 2: Scholar of First Sin](/games/reviews/2025/dark_souls_2.md)

For arguably being the finest example of the genre despite starting it, and not being afraid to change things up in the sequel.

### 1. [Hollow Knight: Silksong](/games/reviews/2025/silksong.md)

For being worth the 7 year wait.
