---
date: "2025-09-05T18:43:11+09:00"
draft: false
title: "TWIL September 5th 2025"
tags: [dev, TWIL]
layout: _post.html
---

- It's very important to clarify requirements from the PM before holding an RFC meeting
  - otherwise you're just wasting everyone's time because no one knows the problem they're trying to solve
  - still managed to hash out some parts of it though
- Even if I had all the necessary info, I definitely could have facilitated better
  - maybe ok to open by giving an overview since not everyone had time to read it, but should've prepared something
  - should have opened by going through the comments
  - then asking if anyone had questions/opinions overall
- Caching is amazing, I definitely get why people fall into the trap of caching everything now
  - The endpoint I was optimising went from a P90 of 20 seconds to 6 seconds without caching
  - Then from 6 seconds to probably a few hundred milliseconds once I added caching
  - Plus, most calls to the endpoint can use the global cache rather than a specific key, so should be hit in the vast majority of cases
  - I think this was definitely a good usecase because it blocks the whole app rendering, can have relatively few cache keys and doesn't change often
- You can't use concerns in a rake task (at least not without accessing them through the model/controller they're included in)
  - But you can use modules without requiring them, just `Module.method`
  - Another win for modules, along with needing to include the module name making it obvious where they come from
- It's probably a good idea to test that you can screenshare before trying to demo something
  - Especially when you went to the trouble of preparing literally everything else about the demo

## Links

### [The `-path` of least resistance](https://frontendmasters.com/blog/the-path-of-least-resistance-part-1/) - Amit Sheen

At the time I'm writing this the caniuse for `clip-path` looks a bit patchy, but once its fully supported I look forward to not cringing in horror when I see flowing shapes all over the screen in a design. `offset-path`, which the second article in the series digs into, also looks intriguing. So many different cool animations it enables, though as with most animation stuff I have a feeling the best choice will remain to not use it.

### [Introduction to Postgres Indexes](https://frontendmasters.com/blog/intro-to-postgres-indexes/) - Adam Rackis

This a high quality (2 part) series by Frontend Masters as usual, but that's not why I'm including it. I'm including it because of this line in part 2:

> Always read these from the bottom:

It's about a postgres query plan, and it blew my mind. I've always known query plans are useful and pulled key information from them, but I always found them difficult to parse. Turns out I've been reading them backward. Like any English speaker I have the temerity to expect text to read top-down, but Postgres says 'No Thank You Sir' to convention and starts its query plan with the **last** action. I have no idea why it took someone literally pointing it out to notice, but it's changed my life. Thank you Mr. Rackis.
