---
date: "2025-11-07"
title: "TWIL November 7th 2025"
tags: [dev, TWIL]
layout: _post.html
---

- Don't run tests locally with dependencies you don't run in CI, then be surprised the tests only fail in CI
  - Don't create projects with dependencies on so many external services it's possible to miss multiple cases of the above in a **single test**
- There are about a billion little details you need to think about on frontend; every possible combination of screen sizes you can imagine & some you can't
- It's possible to get 'overwhelms his senior with PRs' as something to improve on a performance review

I've mentioned this before and doubtless will again, but the ability of frontend devs to misuse elements continues to blow my mind. I was working on a login page today and struggling to get the ToS link inline with the text around it, so I dug through the component tree to figure out why it was ignoring my styles and found... a button. Yes, the 'link' was a button with an `onClick` that did some analytics then called `window.open` with the ToS link. Why. Just why. Both [a](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/a) and [button](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/button) have been widely supported since July 2015 (which seems very late for such core parts of the web). Buttons are for triggering form submissions or interactions within a page **LINKS** (`a`) are for navigating to other pages. Why would someone go out of their way to not use a link?? I get that we apparently need analytics for when someone clicks on the ToS (??), but you can put an `onClick` on an `a` element as well y'know. Anyway the link is now actually a link and I look forward to the inevitable CS ticket about users being confused the the ToS text is all inline now rather than having a random misaligned line break like they're used to -\_\_-.

## Links

### [Solved by CSS Scroll State Queries: hide a header when scrolling down, show it again when scrolling up.](https://www.bram.us/2025/10/22/solved-by-css-scroll-state-queries-hide-a-header-when-scrolling-down-show-it-again-when-scrolling-up/) - Bramus

Saving this because of an absolute abomination of a JS-based solution to something similar I ran across in one of our projects more than for hiding headers, btu I'm sure I'll think of a cool use for this when it becomes usable in browsers circa-2027.
